# Backend

## Bun 

Create a Bun project with `bun init`. 

# Client Side Rendered Single Page App with Vite

## Development

There are two different servers used: one for the frontend (i.e. vite) and another one for the backend (i.e. bun)

## Production

To host the frontend and the backend in the same place, an easy way to do it is by *placing the frontend files inside the backend (API) server*.

## Apporach in development

To mimic the behavior of using just one server for both frontend and backend, it is possible to *proxy request from the frontend to the backend*.

For example, if the backend is at `localhost:3000/api` and the frontend is at `localhost:5173`:

* We can first handle requests to frontend endpoints, i.e. `localhost:5173/api`

* And then forward the frontend request to our backend endpoint, i.e. `localhost:3000/api`.

As a consequence of this approach, our frontend fetches will request to `/api` instead of requesting to `https://localhost:3000/api`.

To forward the frontend request to the backend, we create a proxy server in the `vite.config.js` file, by adding the following:

!!! example "Forward requests to backend server in development"
    ```js
    //...
    server: {
        proxy: {
            "/api": {
                target: "http://localhost:3000",
                changeOrigin: true,
            },
        },
    },
    //...
    ```

## Approach in production

We need to have a plan for building and serving the frontend app from the backend server app (i.e. Hono).

**First** we build the frontend application:

```sh
bun run build
```

This will create a `dist/assets` folder with the transpiled and minimezd files required to run the application. All the frontend can be served by using the `dist` folder.

**Then**, we extend the backend server (i.e. Hono bun) to serve the frontend whenever the user requests an API route that doesn't match any of the ones existing in the backend server:

```jsx
app = new Hono()
app.get("/my-backend-endpoint", myHonoRoute)
//...
// Serve the frontend if API route different to all existing routes
app.get("*", serveStatic({ root: "./frontend/dist" }));
app.get("*", serveStatic({ path: "./frontend/dist/index.html" }));
// ...
```

In the above example, the static files generated by building the frontend app are stored in the `dist` directory of our `frontend` directory.

To check if it works, you can search the url of the backend (i.e. `localhost:3000`) and it should show the frontend app.


# Deployment

## Fly.io

!!! failure
    Requires credit card on May/2024

* Register on [Fly.io](https://fly.io)

* Install `flyctl` by running on the PowerShell:

```sh
    pwsh -Command "iwr https://fly.io/install.ps1 -useb | iex"
```

or

```sh
    powershell -Command "iwr https://fly.io/install.ps1 -useb | iex"
```

* Run `fly launch` from the directory containing your frontend and backend folders.

This will produce a `Dockerfile` and a `fly.toml` file.

* Run `fly deploy` 

* Each time changes in the frontend are done, we need to run `bun run build` in the frontend folder, to produce the updated `dist/` folder. 

After doing so, we need to deploy the backend (that in this approach will serve the the frontend). In this case, as mentioned before, we do that by running `fly deploy`.

These two steps can be merged by modifying the `Dockerfile`:

```sh
# Install frontend node modules
COPY --link frontend/bun.lockb frontend/package.json ./frontend/
RUN cd frontend && bun install --ci

# Copy application code
COPY --link . .

# Change to frontend directory and build the frontend app
WORKDIR /app/frontend
RUN bun run build

# Remove all files in frontend except for the dist folder
RUN find . -mindepth 1 ! -regex '^./dist\(/.*\)?' -delete
```

### Set environment variables

If we are using environment variables in our app, for example, to authenticate in an Auth service provider (like Kinde), we need to let Fly.io know them. 

The credentials stored in the `.env` file should be the ones used for deployment and not for development, i.e.: if your credentials involve `localhost` URLs they must be changed to the actual domain name assigned by Fly.io.

The `.env` can be "imported" into Fly.io by executing:

```bash
    fly secrets import < .env
```

However, since the same `.env` file is used in development, we need to either create another one for production having the actual URLs, or update specifically the URLs by executing:

```bash
    fly secrets set KINDE_REDIRECT_URI=https://expense-tracker-jdvg-3.fly.dev/api/callback
    fly secrets set KINDE_LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URI=https://expense-tracker-jdvg-3.fly.dev
```